First steps
Now that we have the base
structure of the entire sequence,
We can start creating
animation in detail.
Let's start with the first scene.
Let's go to Scene 1 and
let's start with the background,
it has this light
that suddenly appears
and I add some animation to this.
First we are going to convert the
layers we want to animate to vector layers.
Let's create, convert layers.
We return to the color we wanted,
the others we can change the color
and just leave them
there, just in case.
When we convert the wall
light layer to vectors,
we encountered a problem,
And the mask we had in
Illustrator stopped working.
For that reason I avoid using masks
but, in truth, it really happened to me.
On the other hand, let's
hide this effects panel,
since for now we will not use it.
To solve this, let's see
the groups of that layer
and we will hide the layer of light.
Thus we leave the objects that
we want to be inside the mask.
We are going to duplicate this
layer and we are going to put Luz matte,
because this will be the mask
we will use to show the objects.
In this case, we show the
light layer and, unlike the other,
We eliminate all the rest.
So, on the one hand we
have the light mask layer
and, on the other
hand, the objects inside,
To this we put Alpha and we
already have the masked objects.
Now we lack the
backlight, the light itself.
Then we double the layer
of light we already have,
This will simply be Light,
and we will show this layer.
Then we have everything working.
Now, to be able to animate that layer
and that the mask be
animated at the same time,
We are going to link the Paths as we
did at the beginning of the course.
The Path of the mask we will
link it with that of the light
and, in turn, the layer
with the layer itself.
Now, every time we
move the layer of light,
masked objects will also move.
I don't know if it shows much
because the colors have
a very subtle variation
but if I change the color,
there you will notice a little more
and we will see how
the objects remain masked
While we move the mask.
So now we can animate this Path
and the mask will be
automatically animated,
That's why this layer,
for now, we can block.
To animate this, we will
do something very simple,
we are going to leave that frame
there and we are going to move the vector,
as if it appeared from the center.
Maybe not totally because there is
no need to show the entire transition
But it does create the
feeling that it appears.
Maybe doing so ...
It's fine but it's too slow.
Something like that is fine,
maybe it should be more sudden,
so we raise this a little more.
Something like that.
We will do the same
for the column layers.
On the other hand, we had
to hide the layers of columns
which is behind when
the new one is turned on,
since it’s very subtle
but, if we zoom a lot,
let's see what the layer is behind
and it should be hidden,
especially it shows in that type of
design where we play with the same colors.
Then the muted layer is hidden
and when this is turned
on, we will do the same
and we are going to
look for all the Paths.
I usually select all Paths
and add a first keyframe to all.
As much as finally,
you won't animate all of them,
but already having the keyframes,
I make sure that if I move
something, it will animate.
Then we match all these keyframes
with that of the other layer
and we will animate these layers.
I think it could be
something like that.
This top does not matter if it looks
bad, because that will not be seen.
It can be something like that,
just the acceleration is missing.
Once we move the objects
that we know we want to move,
we eliminate the keyframes of the layers
that we do not animate, so they do not bother,
and press U to show
us the animated layers.
We will modify the
acceleration of this.
Now what we have to do
is that this acceleration
match the one we already added here.
If we did it from the beginning, we
would work all the keyframes together
but, since we did this
first and we liked it,
We will copy this data for this.
We are going to simulate
this curve in these two curves.
For that, if we do Alt +
double click on the keyframe,
It will show us the
acceleration information.
The curve is
constructed with this data.
This shows us the input
speed and the output speed.
In this case, the
input does not matter
because we don't have
keyframes before this one,
what matters is the output, what
is to the right of the keyframe.
We are going to copy the speed
and it has 33.333% influence.
That influence occurs
only when we press F9.
If we do Alt + double
click, we will have that data.
We just hit the speed and do
the same with the other keyframe,
in this case, it is the one of
"incoming", the one of entrance,
Because it's like the final keyframe.
This one has zero and one hundred, which
is what it gives us when we carry X frame.
With F9, it comes down and we
stretch the hands everything it gives.
In that case, if we show
all Paths at the same time,
They all have the same curve.
So now they are
going to move in unison.
I think that's fine for now.
Let's not forget to save and now
we will continue with the character.
When we start animating,
we must go thinking
what we want to do,
in this case, in our story,
the character appears from above
and in a moment he jumps
and falls into this position.
What I intended with this scene was for
the character to go down to that point
where you can't see her face
The scene shows the
character completely.
We are going to do
that in this first scene,
The character appears
from nowhere and then jump.
For that, I will see, in this
case, how far the composition goes,
which is right there,
up to the shoulder or so,
and when I enter this layer, I
will add a reference guideline
to have an approximate idea
how far the composition will show us,
because the idea is that
we don't move this layer,
that we don't do this
displacement like this, unless necessary,
maybe it is or we can
adjust some things like that
but we will try, if
possible, to animate
All movements within this layer.
I'm going to block the
guide, so it doesn't bother me,
and we will start to set our
layers to animate the character.
First we will select everything
and we will convert to vector layers.
Taking advantage of the fact that
doing so are all the selected layers,
let's move all the layers up.
For now, I usually
leave Illustrator layers
in case we have to do some update,
some change or reverse
something, but we leave them hidden.
Sometimes I take the
time to rename the layers
because, by default, it
adds "outlines" or contours.
Sometimes I take the time to
remove it, just to make it more neat
and it is easier for us
to identify the layers.
Now we will continue, putting
a little color to the layers
to identify them easier.
Generally, the main element
of a character is the torso,
It is the one that will guide us
the movement of the whole body.
We will try to link all that torso,
That's why I give it
a very striking color.
We can put a color for
legs and a color for the arms,
the hair may be a red
color, that is, if possible,
I try to be representative
of what you are indicating.
You are of any other color.
To prepare the character to
animate, we will link all the objects.
Let's start with the most obvious,
which is the face linked to the head,
So when we move the head,
the face moves along with that.
This hair can be linked to the
head and the hair behind as well.
If we move our head, everything
that is linked to it will move.
In turn, the head is
linked to the torso,
all the members, arms and
legs, are linked to the torso,
in this case the bag too,
and the only thing that remains loose is
the rope, but it is an external object.
So, if we move the torso ...
We are going to move
the whole character.
We can take the torso
movement as the main guide.
I usually separate the dimensions
because I find it easier to animate them.
We are going to add a keyframe in Y,
because it’s more or less the
final position we want it to reach,
and we will make it appear from above.
Maybe the legs may
appear a little first ...
and before it appears more from above.
We are going to accelerate this.
I duplicate this keyframe because we
want him to rest there for a moment ...
and maybe something like that.
For now it's ok.
Let's add detail to this ...
causing the legs to
move independently.
So, this leg may
initially be more flexed.
We are going to select
all the Paths of that layer,
let's put a keyframe
and we will put U to show us
only the animated keyframes.
Now we are going to locate a
new pose for the flexed leg.
That's why I'm going to simply
focus on this area of the interface,
Without worrying about time
or anything, it's just a pose.
Sometimes what I do to
have the reference is
look for a pose that seems good to
us, which is what we already have armed,
and with Shift + F5
I capture that pose.
Then we can simply
take F5 as a reference
that captured image and that helps
us to take something as a reference,
without having to
look at the timeline.
This line, when the leg is flexed,
in theory it will disappear
because it is the line that
separates one leg from the other.
Then we are going to hide the nodes
so that they practically disappear.
Now the rest is a matter
of polishing the drawing.
This is a very
experimental task, we have to try
and see what things
work and what doesn't.
Many times we move
forward and make false steps,
since maybe we add a movement that does
not produce the effect we are looking for.
So don't be afraid to move on
without being very sure
of what they are doing.
Let's see how this looks.
There it is slowly taking
shape and gaining expressiveness.
We will make it fall and we will
give a little bounce to the leg.
We are going to duplicate the frames,
which is the final position we like,
and to the intermediate position we
are going to give it some "stretch".
With each movement, they should
be careful to update the nodes
so that the form remains consistent.
This is a bit rushed, let's
make it rest a little more there
and see what happens
if we get those frames,
or we give this a little more time.
Now that we have
more or less advanced,
we must continue iteratively
with the rest of the other parts
to gradually add detail,
without needing that
everything we animate is final.
As we add detail,
We will realize what things
are missing and what is not.
We will do something
similar with the other leg,
which in principle is more
hidden, but at this point it appears.
Perhaps, what the leg can
do is a reverse movement.
Then maybe it appears ...
and then it contracts.
We do all this edition of
nodes with the Arrow tool
or the Pen tool, which is the G,
to modify some kind of thing.
If we press Alt, we
can modify the hands
and make it have sharp edges.
Also something I usually use a lot
is to select all the
nodes that we want to move.
If we double-click any
node of that selection,
we have a transformation chart,
which helps us to rotate, to scale
Already do a lot of kind of things,
without having to affect the entire layer.
When we do this kind of
rotations, we should try to keep
the proportions of each
object that we animate.
Generally in these types of movements,
the important thing is to see the references
but, as a general idea, I
have to make the legs usually do
an alternate movement
to maintain balance.
That's why I'm working with
keyframes that go alternately.
Here we are giving a small
bounce and see how it looks.
It is taking shape.
As we add things, this
becomes more organic.